
# Specification 'htmlvoc'

This is the repository for htmlvoc. You're welcome to contribute! 

BACKGROUND: SEMANTIC HTML-VOCABULARY COMMUNITY GROUP

The mission of this community group is to establish a draft standard for a RDF-based representation of the HTML-vocabulary. With the HTML-vocabulary in RDF, any type of an HTML-document can be meaningfully represented, generated and validated using nothing but standard semantic technologies, without any vendor lock-in. In addition, full provenance can be provided for a generated HTML-document, as every atom of the document can be described and semantically enriched, ex ante (RDF) and ex post (Rdfa). For instance, the originating algorithm that calculates a certain budget amount in a governmental HTML-document can be linked to the table cell containing the very value. HTML-documents have a wide variety of use and so has the HTML vocabulary. The HTML-vocabulary can be used to generate 100% correct HTML or xHTML and to validate this. The HTML vocabulary can be used to model the front end of a website or application, whereas the logic behind the front end can be captured in SHACL Advanced Features, making for a full semantic representation and execution of digital infrastructure, without any vendor lock-in. An HTML-document can be generated with full compliance to laws and regulations, as these norms can be linked and applied while using the HTML-vocabulary. With full provenance, an HTML-document can battle fake news and show realtime how certain sensitive data in the document (privacy, security) was derived. The community group will come up with a 0.1 draft specification. This will be input for a future working group within W3C. The community group can make use of the currently available draft specification as developed by the Dutch Ministry of Finance in a working prototype for the Dutch governmental budget cycle. By starting this community group, the Dutch Ministry wants to contribute to an open source based digital infrastructure.
